My name is Kaelie Andrews.
I teach science and social studies
here at River Valley Middle School.
I'm here to talk about
how I use experiential learning
in my classrooms
and especially in science class.
We are very blessed
to be living in an area
that has the opportunity to go outdoors
and to use things like the vernal pond
and the streams
and the wooded area to kind of embrace
the students learning experience.
Students are not just learning
about the earth systems.
They are here experiencing them.
They're able to get involved and really,
explore and through different things
like data stream collection,
identifying organisms,
and reflecting on what they've
seen as they go through their field walk.
And I really feel like these hands on
moments really help deepen
their understanding and spark
real curiosity and help them really
build a connection to with what
they're learning.
We have the opportunity here
to bring the outdoors in.
So what that looks like for us
is we've set up,
tanks in the science lab that allows
students to make observations inside
so those who cannot participate outside
or have access to the pools,
they have access to the information
and the experience inside.
Different things like cross
Cross-Curricular connections,
taking a walk into the woods and exploring
and investigating and noticing changes
is easily turned into, activities
that include involves writing involves
math.
It's very cross-curricular.
We can even tie it into indigenous ways of
knowing and,
the students seem to really enjoy it.
Beyond science, these experiments help
students grow in other important ways.
They reflect on their observations.
They learn to work together
through challenging tasks.
They learn to see the world
through different perspectives.
They learn to appreciate
and see the interconnectedness between
different systems.
It allows them to practice listening,
compromising, and be thoughtful
and take thoughtful risks.
They learn how to celebrate each other,
and I really encourage them
to celebrate making mistakes as well
and to learn from that.
My advice would be to work at designing
lessons that make every student have ways
that they can access these experiences,
and different ways to
draw on their understandings.